[Intro music]
Before working in the lab, consult the
SDS for specific hazards relating to
the chemicals you are using.
Ensure you are wearing appropriate
attire and PPE to minimize eye
and skin exposure.
Also make yourself familiar with the
location of all necessary emergency
equipment and your lab's procedure for
cleaning up chemical spills.
See the module "Safety Controls and PPE"
for a review of this information.
Before weighing out a solid,
you will retrieve some of this solid
from the stock container.
Always transfer your reagent into a
secondary container before use to
protect the solid in the stock
container from becoming contaminated
and to make it easier to transfer your
solid to your weighing vessel.
To choose an appropriate
secondary container, consider the
reagent you are using and verify
container compatibility by looking
at the SDS.
In this case, we will be using copper
(II) sulfate pentahydrate, so we will
be using this beaker.
Double check the chemical name and
hazards listed on the stock container
before you pour any out into
your secondary container.
Label your secondary container before
you add any reagent to it.
Note that there may be more
requirements in your lab for what would
go on the label.
Use a spatula to gently transfer an
approximate amount of the chemical into
the secondary container.
Note that the transfer should be gentle
to reduce production of aerosols.
Only return the used spatula if these
spatulas are being used to transfer
the same reagent.
Then recap the container.
Collect all items necessary for
the procedure, including a labeled
collection container for solid waste.
Set up everything next to the balance
you will use and make sure it is all in
easy reach without having to overextend
or slouch your body.
This includes your lab wipes,
spatula,
balance cleaning brush,
and weighing vessel.
Inspect the chemical in your secondary
container for consistent color and
chunks of solid, which you can grind up
or remove to the solid
waste container.
Inspect the balance before you begin.
If there is some solid chemical
left over on the balance from
a previous use.
Gently sweep off the leftover chemical
with a clean, dry brush and dispose of
the debris in the solid waste container.
Inspect the balance and familiarize
yourself with the balance display
before you measure anything.
The maximum weight that the balance can
weigh is here.
The number of spaces after the decimal
point the balance can read is here.
To confirm that the balance is level,
look at this bubble here.
The bubble should be in the center.
If it is not level,
notify someone in your lab responsible
for leveling the balances.
If you are allowed to level the
balance yourself, adjust the feet of
the balance to level it before you
do anything else.
Once level, press 0 in order to
zero the balance.
The tare button, found here, will be used
in our next step.
Several options are available in this
case for the weighing container,
including a weigh boat,
weigh paper,
and glassware such as a test tube. It is
important that the weighing container
be reasonably low mass in relation to
the amount of solid you are
about to weigh.
For the purposes of
this demonstration, we will use
the weigh boat.
Take the container you are using and
place it on the balance.
The container should easily fit into
the space without disrupting operation
of the balance.
Based on the mass of
the weighing container,
reconfirm that you will not be over the
load limit for the balance once you add
the required amount of the solid.
Tare the balance by pressing the T
button and then move the weighing
container from the balance
to your bench.
Use a spatula to transfer a closer
estimated amount of the solid from the
secondary container into
the weighing container.
Place the weighing apparatus back
on the scale,
close the doors, and allow the weight to
stabilize before reading it.
The doors must be closed to prevent
subtle air currents around the balance
from disrupting the measurement.
If the weight is lower than desired,
use the spatula to add more solid from
the secondary container into the weigh
boat on the balance.
Avoid pushing down on the plate of the
balance with the spatula.
Close the doors, allow the measurement
to stabilize, and read the new weight.
If the transferred solid weighs more
than desired, use the spatula to remove
a small amount -
again, being careful not to push down
on the balance plate.
Dispose of any material you remove from
the weighing apparatus into the
solid waste container.
Close the doors and allow the
weight to stabilize.
Once you are close enough to the
desired weight for your experiment,
note the actual mass in
your lab notebook.
Remove the weighing container
from the scale.
Finally, inspect the scale.
If you spilled anything,
be sure to gently brush away any powder,
and dispose of it in the
solid waste container.
Dispose of your waste in the
appropriate waste container.